docs: Getting started guide to set up tbot in AWS and workload identity (#60240)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-workload-identity/mwi_tbot_aws_guide.mdx

---
title: Deploying tbot with Workload Identity on AWS 
description: How to deploy a tbot and configure Workload Identity on an AWS EC2 instance
tags:
 - how-to
 - get-started
 - mwi
 - infrastructure-identity
 - aws
---

{/* lint disable page-structure remark-lint */}

> This guide walks you through deploying `tbot` on an Amazon EC2 instance and setting up Machine and Workload Identity (MWI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through deploying `tbot`, the Machine and Workload Identity agent, on an Amazon EC2 instance.
```

> By the end, you'll have a working `tbot` service that issues SPIFFE-compatible credentials to workloads running on your EC2 instance.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should include a brief recap on why you'd want to use Workload Identity? In case somebody lands on this page from Google, with a more traditional Machine Identity use-case in mind.

Author: Added!

  # "aws sts get-caller-identity" command from the CLI.
  allow:
    - aws_account: "111111111111"
      aws_arn: "arn:aws:sts::111111111111:assumed-role/teleport-bot-role/i-*"
```

Replace:

- `111111111111` with the ID of your AWS account.
- `teleport-bot-role` with the name of the AWS IAM role you created and assigned
  to the EC2 instance.
- `example` with the name of the bot you created in the second step.
- `i-*` indicates that any instance with the specified role can use the join
  method. If you wish to restrict this to an individual instance, replace `i-*`
  with the full instance ID.

Use `tctl` to apply this file:

```code
$ tctl create bot-token.yaml
```

## Step 4/9. Configure `tbot`

**This step is completed on the AWS EC2 instance.**

Create `/etc/tbot.yaml`:

```yaml
version: v2

# Teleport proxy server address
proxy_server: example.teleport.sh:443

# Onboarding configuration
onboarding:
  join_method: token
  token: example-bot

# Storage configuration for tbot state
storage:
  type: directory
  path: /var/lib/teleport/bot

# Outputs section - specifies the credentials tbot should generate
outputs:
  - type: identity
    destination:
      type: directory

>       path: /opt/machine-id/identity

Author: Part of this request was to have some kind of confirmation output that the previous steps worked.Let me know if you think something different should be added. Ty!

    # Path to the socket file that workloads will connect to
    listen: unix:///opt/machine-id/workload.sock
    
    # Specifies which WorkloadIdentity resource will be used to issue credentials
    selector:
      # Replace with the actual name of your Workload Identity resource
      name: example-workload-identity
```

Replace:

- `example.teleport.sh:443` with the address of your Teleport Proxy Service or
  Auth Service. Prefer using the address of a Teleport Proxy Service instance.
- `example-bot` with the name of the token you created in the second step.

(!docs/pages/includes/machine-id/daemon-or-oneshot.mdx!)

## Step 5/9. Create a role for tbot

To let Teleport users or services run `tbot`, you need a role that grants the required permissions for authenticating and requesting short-lived certificates.
`tbot` uses a bot token issued by the Auth Service and operates under a bot role that defines what the bot can impersonate (e.g., roles, resources).

Save the following role definition as `tbot-role.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: tbot
spec:
  allow:
    # Allow tbot to impersonate these roles when issuing certificates.
    impersonate:

>       roles: ['workload', 'ci-cd']

Reviewer: It looks like you're manually creating the bot's "own" role here (i.e. the one that allows `tbot` to impersonate other roles). You don't need to do this, it's managed for you by the `Bot` resource.

    # Allow reading and creating resources required for impersonation and joining.
    rules:
      - resources: ['token']

>         verbs: ['create']

Reviewer: Again, you don't need this. It's actually a little dangerous too I think because it'd allow the bot to create new join tokens (which isn't something you'd ever need to do).

      - resources: ['role']
        verbs: ['read']
  options:

>     max_session_ttl: 8760h  # 1 year for long-running bots

Reviewer: ⚠️ This isn't necessary. `tbot` is designed to use a series of **short-lived** certificates which are renewed regularly (every 20 minutes by default) rather than one very long-lived certificate.

that you have just created. As with other Teleport resources, access is granted
by specifying label matchers on the role that will match the labels on the
resource itself.

In addition to granting access to the resource, you will also need to grant the
ability to read and list the Workload Identity resource type.

Create `workload-identity-issuer-role.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: example-workload-identity-issuer
spec:
  allow:
    workload_identity_labels:
      example: ["getting-started"]
    rules:
    - resources:
      - workload_identity
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
```

Use `tctl create ./workload-identity-issuer-role.yaml` to create the role.

Now, use `tctl bots update` to add the role to the Bot. Replace `example-bot`
with the name of the Bot you created in the deployment guide and
`example-workload-identity-issuer` with the name of the role you just created:

```code
$ tctl bots update example-bot --add-roles example-workload-identity-issuer
```

## Step 7/9. Expose a Workload API endpoint

Configure `workload-identity-api` service in `tbot`. To issue SPIFFE credentials to workloads, `tbot` must expose a Workload API endpoint.

> You'll configure this by adding the `workload-identity-api` service to your `tbot` configuration.

Reviewer: Haven't we already done this in Step 3?
